# Board of Directors Meeting Minutes

The meeting was called by the President via email on October 10, for Friday, October 24, 2025 at 12:00 PM PT.

## Attendance

* Arman Bilge (President, Executive Director)
* Daniel Spiewak
* Andrew Valencik (Secretary)
* Mark Waks (Treasurer)

## Foundation repository and publication of documents

We discussed the private `typelevel/foundation` repository. The need for a private space is acknowledged, but this should only be for a minority of discussions and materials.

There was agreement that we want members of the Technical Steering Committee to be able to continue to have GitHub ownership of the `typelevel` org so that they can support administration and operations. Thus, we will create a separate GitHub organization `typelevel-board` as a private space for the board.

#### Motion
Bylaws of the Foundation and Board of Directors meeting minutes are public (except for executive sessions) and will be made available through `typelevel/foundation` repository, which will be made public. A private fork of this repository under a separate GitHub organization will be used to stage changes before they are pushed to the public repository.

_Passed unanimously._

## Reimbursements

We noted that reimbursements should continue to be filed against the old Open Collective account.

#### Motion

We approve reimbursements for the following expenses:
* $5800 reimbursement to Mark for legal expenses
* ~$180 reimbursement to Andrew for Cryptpad
* ~$2500 reimbursement to Arman for Lausanne travel in August
* ~$100 reimbursement to Arman for other setup costs

_Passed unanimously._

Arman indicated that no more travel is anticipated for the remainder of 2025. We planned to establish more protocols about travel and petty cash.

## Sponsorships

We discussed pending sponsorships in an executive session.

## Discord logistics

Daniel will rework Discord roles and permissions, so that there are appropriately private channels for the board and other committees. Daniel will also transfer ownership of the Discord to an account connected to the email `discord-owner@typelevel.org`.

Arman indicated that he would like to work on improving the onboarding experience for the Discord.

## Bylaw revisions

We decided to handle this item via a pull request on the `foundation` repository.

## Action without a meeting

We decided that GitHub is a good venue for taking written actions, because we are frequently active there and it seems auditable.

#### Motion

For purposes of Section 1.16 in the bylaws, we are defining "unanimous written consent" to include unanimous approval of a pull request on GitHub.

_Passed unanimously._

## Director terms of office

The bylaws prescribe 2 year terms of office for directors with a stagger of 1 year, so we discussed which of the current directors will stagger first. Daniel and Andrew volunteered.

#### Motion

The initial terms of office for Daniel and Andrew are set to 1 year.

_Passed unanimously._

## Committees

### Technical Steering Committee

We decided to open a dialogue with the Typelevel Steering Committee to discuss the new responsibilities of the Technical Steering Committee, before taking any actions.

Additionally, we recognized the Steering Committee as the governing body of Typelevel, an unincorporated non-profit association. To complete the transition of power, they will need to formally transfer assets to the Foundation and then dissolve.

Finally, we discussed how to handle the `typelevel/steering-private` repository.

#### Motion
We believe that the `typelevel/steering-private` repository should be preserved for record keeping purposes given the governance and transfer of authorities to the Typelevel Foundation and we will make a recommendation to the current Typelevel Steering Committee on how to move forward with this in such a way that information is preserved but four Arman-specific issues are redacted from his view and preserved offline.

_Passed unanimously._

### Code of Conduct Committee

#### Motion
Andrew will invite current members of Typelevel Code of Conduct Committee to form a new Code of Conduct committee under the Typelevel Foundation governed by the current [Code of Conduct document][coc] and [Enforcement Policy][ep].

_Passed unanimously._

### Security Team

#### Motion
Arman will invite current members of Typelevel Security Team to form a new Security Team under the Typelevel Foundation governed by the current [Security Policy][sp].

_Passed unanimously._

### Grants Committee

We briefly discussed a new committee to give out grants to the community. This committee will likely include the Executive Director and Treasurer and recruit additional members from the community. We decided to punt further discussion until our finances are stabilized and we are actually in a position to make grants. We recognized that we will need to establish this committee before we give out any grants, to satisy the IRS.

## Staff

### Interim status of the Executive Director

Arman recused himself from this discussion. The rest of the board expressed a commitment to doing a proper search for an executive director, but wants to take time to stand up the organization first.

#### Motion
We will, in mid-2026, conduct an open call and search for a permanent executive director.

_Passed with Daniel, Andrew, and Mark in favor and Arman recused._

### Job descriptions

We briefly discussed establishing a job description for the Executive Director position. Some likely responsibilities of this role include fundraising, delegating tasks to staff and volunteers, doing outreach, representing the Typelevel organization, and improving the sustainability of the Typelevel mission. Arman will draft a job description for the board to review.

We also discussed the possibility of defining a Technical Director position, noting that Arman is currently fulfilling additional responsibilities atypical of an non-profit Executive Director and that making this role more explicit could also help justify compensation decisions. We considered how a Technical Director may interact with the Technical Steering Committee. One proposal is that the committee sets out the priorities for the Technical Director. We decided we will prototype a job description for this position for further consideration.

### Budget for the executive director position

Arman recused himself and the rest of the board moved into an executive session.

#### Motion
We moved to fund the interim Executive Director (which will be for a period of six months, backdated to the date of formation of the Typelevel Foundation corporation) at a total of $45,000. Further compensation for the ED position will be evaluated and discussed at that time.

_Passed with Daniel, Andrew, and Mark in favor and Arman recused._

## Outreachy

We discussed our participation in Outreachy, a mentorship program similar to Google Summer of Code but focused on individuals from underrepresented backgrounds. Discomfort was expressed about the cost of participating ($8000) relative to our current finances and the significant number of AI-generated contributions.

#### Motion
We will not be engaging with Outreachy this cycle but will reconsider that decision in the future.

_Passed unanimously._

## Next board meeting

We scheduled the next board meeting for Friday, November 7, 2025 at 12:00 PM PT.

[coc]: https://github.com/typelevel/.github/blob/de000376e357208ae7d33fc40d2883a0fb519d7b/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
[ep]: https://github.com/typelevel/governance/blob/b48beac28f262ea67ef67915d85cef2bd53e4d16/ENFORCEMENT-POLICY.md
[sp]: https://github.com/typelevel/.github/blob/de000376e357208ae7d33fc40d2883a0fb519d7b/SECURITY.md
